A dataset might be missing data for a number of reasons.
Some datasets were created manually by a human sitting at a keyboard typing.
You can imagine how easy it would be to make
a mistake or forget to input a piece of data.
Even when data gets automatically recorded,
you could end up with missing values.
Consider a weather station that measures the air temperature, pressure,
and wind speed on top of a building,
and then sends the measurements to a database every two seconds.
The sensor might malfunction and skip a measurement.
The data might be lost or corrupted in transmission,
and sometimes a missing value actually should be missing.
This happens especially with text or categorical variables, for example,
each project entry in the World Bank Project dataset has
five variables representing the theme or purpose of the project.
These variables are labeled theme 1 through theme 5.
Some projects might have values for all five theme variables,
other projects might only encompass one theme.
This is a case where the theme 2 through 5 variables should be empty.
To run a machine learning algorithm,
you can't have missing values in your dataset.
So, next we'll talk about your options when your dataset is missing values.